# About AUTD3

An ultrasound phased array is an ultrasound transducers array, typically arranged in a grid.
By individually controlling the phase and amplitude of ultrasonic waves, an arbitrary sound field can be generated in space.

The convergence of sound energy creates acoustic radiation pressure. 
This pressure enables the human body surface to be pushed in a non-contact manner.
The focal point is generated by the principle of "phased array," and the focal position can be controlled electronically.
In addition to creating a single focal point, you can create a complex spatial distribution by solving the inverse problem with a computer.

The magnitude of the pressure generated by the phased array is currently up to about $\SI{50}{mN}$ per square centimeter.
The spatial resolution is up to the used wavelength (e.g., $\sim\SI{8.5}{mm}$ at $\SI{40}{kHz}$).
Despite these restrictions, you can freely design the spatiotemporal distribution of force within that range and create various tactile sensations.

This area of ​​technology that stimulates tactile sensation in a non-contact manner is called "Midair Haptics," and we refer to this ultrasound midair haptics device as the Airborne Ultrasound Tactile Display (AUTD).
The essential parts of AUTD were proposed and established by The University of Tokyo between 2008[^1] and the early 2010s[^2].
Since then, some universities and companies from various countries have entered, and R&D has been actively conducted.

[Please also see a list of our studies using AUTD on our laboratory's website.](https://hapislab.org/airborne-ultrasound-tactile-display)

[^1]: [Takayuki Iwamoto, Mari Tatezono, and Hiroyuki Shinoda: Non-contact Method for Producing Tactile Sensation Using Airborne Ultrasound, Haptics: Perception, Devices and Scenarios: 6th International Conference, Eurohaptics 2008 Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science), pp.504-513, 2008.](https://hapislab.org/public/hiroyuki_shinoda/research/pdf/08Eurohaptics_iwamoto.pdf)

[^2]: [Takayuki Hoshi, Masafumi Takahashi, Takayuki Iwamoto, and Hiroyuki Shinoda: Noncontact Tactile Display Based on Radiation Pressure of Airborne Ultrasound, IEEE Trans. on Haptics, Vol. 3, No. 3, pp.155-165, 2010.](https://hapislab.org/public/hiroyuki_shinoda/research/pdf/10_Trans_Haptics_Hoshi.pdf)
